\"
\" lama.man
\" 
\" Made by Tatam
\" Login   <tatam@protonmail.com>
\" 
\" Started on  Fri Oct 14 21:03:12 2016 Tatam
\" Last update Sun Jun  3 15:51:52 2018 Tatam
\"
.TH man 1 "Mai 2018" "1.1" "lama man page"
.SH NAME
lama \- mix a given word list to generate password dictionnary
.SH SYNOPSIS
lama [MIN] [MAX] [FILE] [OPTION]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Lama is a tool for mixing a word list.

The goal is to obtain a custom password dictionary to a particular target, whether physical or moral.

It is therefore important that the words in this list correspond to the target.

Keep in mind that the Lama generates a simple passwords list and not complex, the goal is to be fast and targeted rather than slow and exhaustive.
.SH OPTIONS

.BR file 
    File containing all the personal words of the target. This is possible to make alias or synonymous on each words by separing them with a pipe character ("|"). For example, Alice have a nickname which is Lili. It is quite unlikey that "alice" and "lili" appear in the same password.
    
Here, a quike list example:
    alice|lili
    bobo
    42
    september|09|9

.BR <min>
    Minimum interval number of output word (1-9).

.BR <max>
    Maximum interval number of output word (1-9). It is not advisable/useful to make the max greater than 5. Indeed, few people make a password with more than 5 word combinations. Furthermore, the generation can be strongly slowed beyond 5.

.BR -h
    Display output informations as Human readable format. Informations will displayed on STDERR. The output size of the dictionary is approximate.

.BR -n
    Print password without transformation, as the case in the word list.

.BR -c
    Print password with the first letter capitalized if it is a letter.

.BR -C
    Print password with the first letter capitalized for each words if it is a letter.

.BR -L
    Print password with leet speak transformation. The leet speak configuration can be set at /etc/lama/leet.lst.
    
.BR -S
    Add specials characters to the words given list. The specials list characters can be edit at /etc/lama/special.lst. Note that this option directly adds a set of words to the initial list. Therefore, to get a password of type "alice_bob" where the "_" is part of -S, it is necessary to have an interval of 3.

.BR -N
    Add numeric sequences to the words given list. The numeric list characters can be edit at /etc/lama/numeric.lst. Note that this option directly adds a set of words to the initial list. Therefore, to get a password of type "alicebob1234" where the "1234" is part of -N, it is necessary to have an interval of 3.

.BR -y
    Force the answer to 'y' (yes) before the passwords generation. Be carful, lama will generate passwords even if there is not enough space on your disk.

.SH EXAMPLES
# Display on stdin without transformation.
  lama 1 4 wordlist.lst -n

# Write into dictionnary.lst without transformation.
  lama 2 2 wordlist.lst -nh > dictionnary.lst

# Write into dictionnary.lst with first lettre capitalized or first letter capitalized for each words.
  lama 2 5 wordlist.lst -n -c -C > dictionnary.lst

# Write into dictionnary.lst with leet speak transformation.
  lama 1 2 wordlist.lst -L > dictionnary.lst

# Write into dictionnary.lst with, normal and leet speak transformation and add specials characters.
  lama 1 4 wordlist.lst -nLSh > dictionnary.lst

# Generation word list and directly crack with John The Ripper.
  lama 1 4 wordlist.lst -ncCLShy | john /tmp/unshadow --stdin

# Generation word list and sort it with pw-inspector. Usefull to generate a WPA/WPA2 passwords list.
  lama 1 4 wordlist.lst -ncCLShy | pw-inspector -m 8 -M 63 > dictionnary.lst

.SH BUGS
When -c and -C options are used in the same time, this creates duplicates passwords on the first generation interval (the min value). This bug is assumed because to solve it would slow down the generation considerably.
.SH THANKS
Thanks to ReDiX, for his help and support since the beginning of the project.

Thanks to LOU16, from les-mathematiques.net, for contributing to the development of all the mathematical formulas intended to predict the number of words generated.

Thanks to Dorian, for helping me fix many spelling mistakes.
.SH AUTHOR
Tatam (tatam@protonmail.com)
